Clarify language around opening Credential Offer Endpoint (#380)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

## Credential Offer {#credential-offer}

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata). For example, by clicking a link and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.
```

Author: I think the version I already have reads better, but if other people prefer Kristina's suggestion I'm okay with it. Or other suggestions welcome.

Reviewer 2: This other person probably does prefer Kristina's suggestion.

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Reviewer 3: What about custom url schemes as clickable links?

Author: In that case the "Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint" is a custom url, I think that case is covered?

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Reviewer 4: As always I might be missing something, but what about cases where a wallet is

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Author: I am unsure exactly what use case you are describing, but either my guess would be that either:

1. This is happening in the user's browser/on the user's device and hence I'm pretty sure a click is involved so this text is fine, or:
2. This is not involving the user's browser/device and is already impossible to do in VCI today without custom extensions

Is this flow you're talking about one you've implemented - if so can you provide any extra details on how it works?

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Author: Thanks! So in this case the wallet's `credential_offer_endpoint` is specific to the user rather than generic to the wallet software? Or if not how does it know what end user the offer is for?

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Reviewer 4: Yes, in this particular case every user has a specific wallet that has a specific URL that is tied to it.

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Author: Okay, thanks. I think I need to think about this...

When the issuer does the http GET on the `credential_offer_endpoint` what is the wallet's HTTP response in your case?

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Reviewer 4: 202 Accepted

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Reviewer 5: I was wondering about that case as well when reviewing this PR. For a backend-based wallet, the Wallet wouldn't be invoked, but there would just be a direct call to the `credential_offer_endpoint`. Would it make sense to relax the language a bit here or add a special case if the Credential Offer Endpoint is a callable (https) URL?

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Author: @nemqe A further clarify question if you don't mind - in this case do the wallets all have the same client_id, or is there a separate client_id for each user's wallet?

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Author: And actually one more question:

How does the issuer know if it should make a backend call or send the user to the url?

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Reviewer 4: We originally implemented the `pre-auth` code flow with anonymous access (no client ids).

As for the how does an issuer know what to do, well we kind of made some custom logic before the openid protocol is triggered that sets up things out of band, so the issuer never really dynamically decides if it is going to show a link, or a qr code, the assumption is that once the business specific logic is performed the issuance always starts by just sending an offer to the wallet.

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Reviewer 4: I think in the early days we tried to advocate for some of these client metadata concepts but in the end as we did not have too much luck we resorted to creating our own `openid-credential-wallet` file with the endpoint inside it as I think the consensus then was "wallet endpoint discovery is out of the scope of the spec".

My comment here was just about the language as in the current spec text we are not out of compliance, but it seemed to me that the new text from this PR concentrates fully on the Mobile Wallets and Web Browsers and the involvement of the User in the Wallet invocation so the concern was that we will fall out of compliance as a consequence.

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Author: @nemqe Would a statement like this solve your concern:

> Issuers MAY also communicate credential offers directly to a Wallet's backend but any mechanism for doing so is currently outside of the scope of this specification.

?

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Reviewer 4: Yes, I think that would suffice. Thank you.

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by allowing the End-User to invoke the Wallet using the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata) (for example by clicking a link) and/or rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can scan in a wallet or an arbitrary camera application.

Author: Okay, great, I've added that now, thanks!

## Credential Offer {#credential-offer}

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by directing the resource owner's

Reviewer 2: @c2bo makes a good point at https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/380#pullrequestreview-2279672949 :

> While "resource owner's user agent" might be technically correct, it sounds a bit off to me - especially given, that we have not used the term resource owner once in the whole spec so far.

so I'll suggest this with the term "End-User" that is used quite a bit throughout the draft:

```suggestion
The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by directing the End-User's
```

> The Credential Issuer makes a Credential Offer by directing the End-User's
> user-agent to the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata). The Credential Issuer MAY render a QR code containing the Credential Offer that can be scanned by the End-User using a Wallet, or a link that the End-User can click.

Reviewer: I am confused. when the wallet scans the credential offer QR code, user agent/browser is not opened.

```suggestion
The Credential Issuer sends a Credential Offer to the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client-metadata.
Some of the ways the Credential Issuer can do so are by rendering a QR code containing the Credential Offer that can be scanned by the End-User using a Wallet, or providing a URL containing the Credential Offer that the End-User can click and open the wallet.
```
